---
layout: post
title:  "A Reasonable Resolution"
date:   2018-01-01 23:49:00 -0400
categories: editorial
---

# Preface
1. Why am I doing this..?
2. What makes it reasonable?
3. Why write about it?

## Children

1. Chapter two, "Religion Kills", of _God is Not Great - How Religion Poisons Everything_ by Christopher Hitchens.
  - "It [religion] may speak about the bliss of the next world, but it wants power in this one.", "The true believer cannot rest until the whole world bows the knee."
  - Sectarianism is a major theme in this chapter. Hitchens wants to make it clear that the rivalries created by sects is the first step that religion takes to start its killing process. Sects breed their own toxic subculture to propagate nothing but anti-other ideology.
  - Many personal experiences were used to back up his claims in this chapter, and digesting each of them was crucial to tying the chapter together. There were a few moments where I felt as though he was enjoying simply sharing his wealth of experience during his research phases, but ultimately the stories all added up to become a powerful tool at summing up "Religion Kills".
  - My opinion that religion was first and foremost, and remains to be, a tool used on and against lesser privileged or less educated peoples was solidified by this chapter. Ideology seems the perfect distractor and unifier that can be leveraged by those who wish to maintain power over a group.
2. Chapter three, "A Short Digression on the Pig; or, Why Heaven Hates Ham" of _God is Not Great - How Religion Poisons Everything_ by Christopher Hitchens.
  - Hitchens here goes on a brief four and a half page tangent on the nature of religion's relationship with pigs. Mostly, he talks about the history of how humanity sees the pig, and as usual spouts his opinions on the religious groups that condemn their consumption or imagery.
  - It surprised me to learn that charcuterie platters are likely originated in Spain, where religious refugees from the Middle East were given escape. Refugees were forced to convert to Christianity and pork and cured hams were used as "torture" to tell whether or not a refugee was fully converted.
3. Chapter four, "A Note on Health, to Which Religion Can Be Hazardous" of _God is Not Great - How Religion Poisons Everything_ by Christopher Hitchens.
  - Stemming the idea of sexual repression - isn't it likely that religion's growth or survival is due to most of the population not knowing how to deal with their children's behavior appropriately? This, tied with lack of education, obviously seems fairly plausible.
  - "Archbishop Lancelot Andrewes, during the celebrated 'Black Death' in London in 1665, noticed uneasily that the horror fell upon those who prayed and kept the faith  as well as upon those who did not. He came perilously close to stumbling upon a real point." (48)
  - "But if these things [evil doings] can be preached under the protection of an established religion, we are expected to take them at face value." (53)
  - "...[religion] claims the right to officiate at the end of life, just as it hopes to monopolize children at life's beginning." (60)
  - Here, Hitchens breaks down how religion always seems to have an answer to things, regardless of what science has to say and conveniently when the answer aids in covering up things evil or complex.
